Data types are the classification or categorization of data items. It represents the kind of value that tells what operations can be performed on a particular data. Since everything is an object in Python programming, data types are actually classes and variables are instance (object) of these classes.

Following are the standard or built-in data type of Python:

Numeric
Sequence Type
Boolean
Set
Dictionary

Numeric
In Python, numeric data type represent the data which has numeric value. Numeric value can be integer, floating number or even complex numbers.
These values are defined as int, float and complex class in Python.

Integers – This value is represented by int class. It contains positive or negative whole numbers (without fraction or decimal). 
In Python there is no limit to how long an integer value can be.
Float – This value is represented by float class. It is a real number with floating point representation. It is specified by a decimal point. 
Optionally, the character e or E followed by a positive or negative integer may be appended to specify scientific notation.
Complex Numbers – Complex number is represented by complex class. It is specified as (real part) + (imaginary part)j. For example – 2+3j
Note – type() function is used to determine the type of data type.


Sequence Type
In Python, sequence is the ordered collection of similar or different data types. Sequences allows to store multiple values in an organized and efficient fashion. 
There are several sequence types in Python –

String
List
Tuple
1) String
In Python, Strings are arrays of bytes representing Unicode characters. A string is a collection of one or more characters put in a single quote,
double-quote or triple quote. In python there is no character data type, a character is a string of length one. It is represented by str class.
 

Creating String
Strings in Python can be created using single quotes or double quotes or even triple quotes.

2) List
Lists are just like the arrays, declared in other languages which is a ordered collection of data. It is very flexible as the items in a list do not need 
to be of the same type.
 

Creating List
Lists in Python can be created by just placing the sequence inside the square brackets[].

3) Tuple
Just like list, tuple is also an ordered collection of Python objects. The only difference between tuple and list is that tuples are immutable 
i.e. tuples cannot be modified after it is created. It is represented by tuple class.
 

Creating Tuple
In Python, tuples are created by placing a sequence of values separated by ‘comma’ with or without the use of parentheses for grouping of the data sequence. 
Tuples can contain any number of elements and of any datatype (like strings, integers, list, etc.).

Note: Tuples can also be created with a single element, but it is a bit tricky. Having one element in the parentheses is not sufficient, there must be a trailing 
‘comma’ to make it a tuple.

Boolean
Data type with one of the two built-in values, True or False. Boolean objects that are equal to True are truthy (true), 
and those equal to False are falsy (false). But non-Boolean objects can be evaluated in Boolean context as well and determined to be true or false.
It is denoted by the class bool.

Note – True and False with capital ‘T’ and ‘F’ are valid booleans otherwise python will throw an error.

Set
In Python, Set is an unordered collection of data type that is iterable, mutable and has no duplicate elements. The order of elements in a set is undefined though
it may consist of various elements.

Creating Sets
Sets can be created by using the built-in set() function with an iterable object or a sequence by placing the sequence inside curly braces, separated by ‘comma’. 

Dictionary
Dictionary in Python is an unordered collection of data values, used to store data values like a map, which unlike other Data Types that hold only single value
as an element, Dictionary holds key:value pair. Key-value is provided in the dictionary to make it more optimized. Each key-value pair in a Dictionary is separated
by a colon :, whereas each key is separated by a ‘comma’.

Creating Dictionary
In Python, a Dictionary can be created by placing a sequence of elements within curly {} braces, separated by ‘comma’. Values in a dictionary can be of any
datatype and can be duplicated, whereas keys can’t be repeated and must be immutable. Dictionary can also be created by the built-in function dict(). 
An empty dictionary can be created by just placing it to curly braces{}.

Note – Dictionary keys are case sensitive, same name but different cases of Key will be treated distinctly.
Type of elements in a set need not be the same, various mixed-up data type values can also be passed to the set.
